# The Data folder
It contains all the data generated by the `generator.py` part of  `datagen` module.
The files in the data folder are:
- **dataset.csv** contains the relational table upon which the rest of the data is generated from. It is composed by 
several entries each one  possessing a given number of attributes. Attributes can either be discrete or continuous.
It is possible to generate data consisting of mixed attributes or just discrete or continuous attributes. 
Discrete attributes values for each row are sampled with a random probability from a predefined list of possible values.
The length of the list of possible values is a tunable parameter.
Continuous attributes are drawn from a normal distribution with fixed standard deviation and mean.
- **query_log.csv** contains a list of non-empty queries generated on the base dataset. Conditions over discrete attributes
are expressed as equalities while conditions over continuous attributes are expressed as inequalities for simplicity.
- **user_list.csv** contains the list of unique id users.
- **utility_matrix.csv** contains the sparce utility matrix with the rating of each user. It is possible to tune how 
many queries rates each user. Ratings are calculated by associating a seed set of queries for each user representing the 
ideal query with maximum utility. Comparing the indexes of the data returned by the seed queries and the indexes of the 
data returned by the rated query is it possible to calculate the rating as size(intersection(seed_index, data_index))/ size(data_index)
